In the last lecture, we had a look at how we could import and use JSON data in our project, in our Power BI
project and it was a bit difficult because we had to drill down into the data structure and make sure
we transform it into a two dimensional table
we can actually work with. In this lecture
now, I want to take it to the next level and whilst we will in the end still use JSON data, I want
to show you how to get this data by directly querying a restful API service and which better service to
query than the Star Wars API.
So feel free to Google for Star Wars API so that you can visit swapi.co and here you'll find an
explanation on how it works and what you might query
and I'll show it here on your webpage.
You can simply for example query all the people, so the full URL would be to http://www.swapi.co/api/people
for example
and if we send this request, we would get back JSON data which looks like this.
So an object which has the overall count of people and then the result which is a list of the individual
characters we have in the Star War movies.
So that's really interesting, I hope,
so let's copy that
URL here,
the API part at least, we'll have to add people manually
and let's go back to Power BI. In there we can click get data and then we could click web or of course
also on a more tiered bottom, web
and that's also how you could import full webpages. Here
however, we're just getting JSON data and Power BI will automatically find out which data it receives
and handle that correctly.
So here, we can enter the URL,
don't forget to add people or whatever you plan on querying at the end
and then we can also switch to advanced.
Now what can you do here
under advanced? We get the URL parts for example and this would allow you to structure your
URL, so you could either enter the full URL or you could also enter people here and that should
also create a URL of all these parts.
So that is how you can also query that, so
let's use this way for example sake, you'll see the full URL previewed down here then.
Here you can specify in a timeout if you have some service which might take a bit longer, you could
specify that after one minute of inactivity, so after one minute of not getting any result, you want to
quit
so that Power BI doesn't keep on querying that and doesn't wait for a response. Here
I'll leave this empty which means wait until the data is there. And you can also set some custom headers,
now maybe you have a service where you need to pass some authorisation header or some other header to
have it work correctly and have it return the correct data,
you could set these HTTP headers there and you set typical HTTP headers.
For me I don't need that here, so let's just hit OK to query that API as it is and we get back JSON
data
as you already knew it.
Now let's transform this into a table to begin with
and then we can again drill down into the JSON data, for example into that list here.
Now where is that expand item
we were looking for?
If we have a look at this, we can't click it,
why?
Because only one of the items here is actually a list.
So if we wanted to transform this, we would have to do it differently here,
we could drill into the list here and convert this to a table which now if we click OK will actually
override our people query so that it's no longer our original data but just that list
and of course you could have save this as a new query if you want to keep both.
Now with this, we get our column and now we can split this
and now you see we have all these fields, name, height, mass and so on for all the characters
and if you scroll over, you see you could drill down more into a list of films and so on.
Now with that data being loaded like this, you could drill down further into it and transform it however
you want to transform it to get the analysis you want to get,
I think it became clear how you can connect your HTTP Service, get data the service returns and of course
this doesn't have to be JSON,
that's also important. Power BI is not only able to work with JSON, earlier in the course you already
saw how it works with a webpage which loads HTML,
here you see it works with JSON and if that would return csv, that works too.
Basically and that's a key takeaway, the web data source is like a wrapper around other data sources which
you can handle in Power BI too, like csv, text files, whatever it is and whatever your service here returns, Power BI
will then be able to handle it.